>> Ifill: THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION WAS BACK ON THE
DEFENSIVE TODAY, AS ATTORNEY
GENERAL ERIC HOLDER FACED
QUESTIONS ON CAPITOL HILL OVER
THE I.R.S.'S TARGETING OF
CONSERVATIVE GROUPS AND THE
SECRET SEIZURE OF THE A.P.'S
PHONE RECORDS.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Brown: AND I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
ON THE "NEWSHOUR" TONIGHT, WE
FOLLOW UP WITH A CLOSER LOOK AT
THE I.R.S.'S INDEPENDENCE AND
NEW DEVELOPMENTS ON THE STORY.
>> Ifill: THEN, MARGARET WARNER
REPORTS ON MORE TROUBLING
ALLEGATIONS OF SEXUAL ASSAULTS
IN THE MILITARY, AS LEADERS
CHARGED WITH PROTECTING VICTIMS
ARE ACCUSED OF ABUSE.
>> Brown: SPENCER MICHELS HAS
THE STORY OF A PUSH BY THE SAN
FRANCISCO POLICE TO INCREASE THE
USE OF SURVEILLANCE CAMERAS IN
THE CITY IN THE WAKE OF THE
BOSTON BOMBINGS.
>> EVERYBODY LIKES VIDEO, JURIES
LIKE VIDEO, INVESTIGATORS LIKE
VIDEO, PROSECUTORS LIKE VIDEO,
AND I THINK, LOOKING AT THE
BOSTON MARATHON, THEY ME THADAT
CASE OFF OF VIDEO.
>> Ifill: JUDY WOODRUFF EXAMINES
A NEW $100 MILLION PUSH TO HELP
A HUNDRED CITIES WEATHER
DISASTERS, BO NATTHURAL AND
MAN-MADE.
>> SO MUCH OF IMATCLE CHANGE
THAT'S ALREADY OCCURRED IS
LEADING TO THESE HUGE SHOCKS,
HUGE STORMS, WIND, HURRICANES,
AND CITIES ARE GOING TO HAVE TO
ADAPT TO THAT.
>> Brown: AND WE CLOSE WITH THE
ANGELINA EFFECT: WHY WOMEN
CHOOSE SURGERY EVEN BEFORE A
CANCER DIAGNOSIS AND THE BROADER
MEDICAL DECISIONS FACED BY THOSE
AT HIGHEST RISK.
>> Ifill: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S "NEWSHOUR."
>> Ifill: TWIN POLITICAL STORMS
GATHERED MORE FORCE TODAY OVER
POTENTIAL MISDEEDS AT THE I.R.S.
AND THE SEIZURE OF REPORTERS'
PHONE RECORDS.
THE U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL FACED
QUESTIONS BEFORE THE HOUSE
JUDICIARY COMMITTEE,
AND THE ADMINISTRATION CAME
UNDER NEW CRITICISM.
>> NOW, MY QUESTION ISN'T ABOUT
WHO'S GOING TO RESIGN.
MY QUESTION IS WHO IS GOING TO
JAIL OVER THIS SCANDAL.
>> Ifill: HOUSE SPEAKER JOHN
BOEHNER LED THE WAY THIS
MORNING, AS REPUBLICANS STEPPED
UP DEMANDS FOR ACTION IN THE
SCANDAL AT THE INTERNAL REVENUE
SERVICE.
>> THERE ARE LAWS IN PLACE TO
PREVENT THIS TYPE OF ABUSE.
SOMEONE MADE A CONSCIOUS
DECISION TO HARASS AND TO HOLD
UP THESE REQUESTS FOR TAX-EXEMPT
STATUS.
>> Ifill: THAT FOLLOWED LAST
NIGHT'S RELEASE A REPORT FROM A
TREASURY DEPARTMENT INSPECTOR
GENERAL.
IT FOUND:
AND THERE WAS MORE:
"U.S.A. TODAY" REPORTED THAT
DURING THE SAME PERIOD, THE
I.R.S. "APPROVED PERHAPS DOZENS
OF APPLICATIONS FROM MILASIR
LIBERAL AND PROGRESSIVE GROUPS."
ON THE SENATE FLOOR, REPUBLICAN
MINORITY LEADER MITCH McCONNELL
PRESSED THE WHITE HOUSE TO MAKE
SUHE
WITH CONGRESSIONAL
INVESTIGATORS.
>> THESE ALLEGATIONS ARE
SERIOUS, THAT THERE WAS AN
EFFORT TO BRING THE POWER OF THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT TO BEAR ON
THOSE THE ADMINISTRATION
DISAGREED WITH, IN THE MIDDLE OF
A HEATED NATIONAL ELECTION.
IT COULD BE CRIMINAL.
AND WE'RE DETERMINED TO GET
ANSWERS.
>> Ifill: McCONNELL AND THE
OTHER 44 REPUBLICANS IN THE
SENATE SIGNED A LETTER TO
PRESIDENT OBAMA DEMANDING FULL
COMPLIANCE.
WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY JAY
CARNEY SAID TODAY THE PRESIDENT
IS COMMITTED TO GETTING TO THE
BOTTOM OF WHAT HAPPENED.
>> HE EXPECTS PEOPLE TO BE HELD
ACCOUNTABLE IF THEY ENGAGED IN
INAPPROPRIATE ACTIVITY,
INAPPROPRIATE CONDUCT.
HE EXPECTS THE TREASURY
DEPARTMENT AND THE I.R.S. TO
TAKE ALL THE NECESSARY ACTIONS
TO ENSURE THAT THIS KIND OF
THING CANNOT HAPPEN AGAIN.
>> Ifill: ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC
HOLDEHAS R ALREADY BEGUN A
CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION INTO THE
I.R.S. MATTER, BUT SOME
LAWMAKERS SEE LARGER PATTERNS AT
WORK.
REPUBLICAN CONGRESSMAN STEVE
CHABOT OF OHIO:
>> I BELIEVE THERE HAS BEEN A
PATTERN BY THIS ADMINISTRATION
IN NOT TAKING RESPONSIBILITY FOR
FAILURES, AVOIDING BLAME,
POINTING THE FINGERS IN SOMEBODY
ELSE'S DIRECTION.
WOULD YOU AGREE WITH THAT?
>> UH, NO.
>> I THOUGHT YOU MIGHT SAY THAT.
I THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE DO,NK A
LOT OF MEMBERS OF THIS
COMMITTEE, WE MIGHT BE DIVIDED
OBVIOUSLY.
BUT THESE ARE VERY SIGNIFICANT
THINGS WHICH HAVE OCCURRED HERE
AND I WOULD STRONGLY ENCOURAGE
THIS ADMINISTRATION TO GET OUT
FRONT, GET ALL THE FACTS OUT,
LET THE CHIPS FALL WHERE THEY
MAY.
I THINK THAT'S IN THE BEST
>> I WOULD AGREE WITH THAT
LAST... LAST PART OF YOUR
STATEMENT.
IT IS ONE OF THE REASONS WHY I
ORDERED THE INVESTIGATION LAST
FRIDAY.
I CAN ASSURE YOU AND THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE THAT WE WILL
TAKE A DISPASSIONATE VIEW OF
THIS.
THIS WILL NOT BE ABOUT PARTIES,
THIS WILL NOT BE ABOUT
IDEOLOGICAL PERSUASIONS, ANYBODY
WHO HAS BROKEN THE LAW WILL BE
HELD ACCOUNTABLE.
>> Ifill: STILL, HOUSE
REPUBLICANS HAVE FREQUENTLY
ACCUSED HOLDER OF STONEWALLING
THEIR INVESTIGATIONS, EVEN
CITING HIM FOR CONTEMPT.
THAT BAD BLOOD WAS ON SHARP
DISPLAY WHEN HOLDER'S LEADING
CRITIC, CALIFORNIA CONGRESSMAN
DARRELL ISSA, COMPLAINED THE
DEPARTMENT FAILED TO HAND OVER
E-MAILS IN ANOTHER MATTER,
INVOLVING THE CIVIL RIGHTS
DIVISION.
>> I WILL CERTAINLY LOOK AT THE
REQUEST.
IT'S NOT SOMETHING I'VE
PERSONALLY BEEN INVOLVED WITH,
BUT I'LL LOOK AT THE REQUEST AND
TRY TO BE AS RESPONSIVE AS I
CAN.
I'M SURE THERE MUST HAVE BEEN A
GOOD REASON WHY ONLY THE TO AND
FROM PARTS WERE PROVIDED.
>> YES, YOU DIDN'T WANT US TO
SEE THE DETAILS.
MR. ATTORNEY GENERAL...
>> NO, NO, THAT'S WHAT YOU
TYPICALLY DO.
NO, I'M NOT GOING TO STOP
TALKING NOW.
YOU CHARACTERIZE SOMETHING...
(CROSS TALK)
THAT IS INAPPROPRIATE AND IT'S
TOO CONSISTENT WITH THE WAY YOU
CONDUCT YOURSELF AS A MEMBER OF
CONGRESS.
IT'S UNACCEPTABLE AND IT'S
SHAMEFUL.
>> Ifill: HOLDER ALSO FACED
CRITICISM FROM LAWMAKERS ON BOTH
SIDES ABOUT THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT'S DECISION TO
SUBPOENA PHONE RECORDS OF THE
ASSOCIATED PRESS.
IT'S PART OF AN INVESTIGATION
INTO LEAKS ABOUT A FAILED TERROR
PLOT LAST YEAR.
THE ATTORNEY GENERAL SAYS HE
RECUSED HIMSELF FROM THE PROBE
EARLY ON, BECAUSE HE WAS ONE OF
THE OFFICIALS WHO HAD ACCESS TO
THE INFORMATION THAT WAS LEAKED.
INSTEAD, HE NAMED HIS DEPUTY,
JAMES COLE, TO HANDLE THE
MATTER, AND COLE, IN TURN, MADE
THE DECISION TO SEEK THE PHONE
RECORDS.
CALIFORNIA DEMOCRAT ZOE LOFGREN
PRESSED HIM ON THAT DECISION.
>> THIS IS BOTH AN ONGOING
MATTER AND AN ONGOING MATTER
ABOUT WHICH I KNOW NOTHING.
SO I'M NOT IN A POSITION REALLY
TO ANSWER THAT QUESTION.
BUT HERE'S WHAT I DO THINK.
I DO THINK THAT AT THE
CONCLUSION OF THIS MATTER AND
WHEN I CAN BE BACK INVOLVED IN
IT.
THAVE
KIND OF AFTER ACTION ANALYSIS
WOULD BE APPROPRIATE.
>> BUT IT SEEMS TO ME THE DAMAGE
DONE TO A FREE PRESS IS
SUBSTANTIAL AND WILL CONTINUE
UNTIL CORRECTIVE ACTION IS TAKEN
AND I WOULD HOPE THAT WE MIGHT
BE ABLE TO FURTHER PURSUE THIS
MR. CHAIRMAN AND GET SOME
CLARIFICATION ON FUTURE ACTION
EITHER THROUGH LEGISLATIVE
EFFORTS OR THROUGH FURTHER
REVISION OF THE CODE OF
REGULATION BY THE ADMINISTRATION
BECAUSE I THINK THIS IS A VERY
SERIOUS MATTER THAT I THINK
CONCERNS ALL OF US NO MATTER OUR
PARTY AFFILIATION.
>> Ifill: WHITE HOUSE OFFICIALS,
MEANWHILE, SAID THE
ADMINISTRATION WILL SUPPORT NEW
EFFORTS TO PASS A MEDIA SHIELD
LAW.
AND ON THE I.R.S. SCANDAL, THE
AGENCY'S ACTING COMMISSIONER,
STEVEN MILLER, IS DUE TO TESTIFY
BEFORE THE HOUSE WAYS AND MEANS
COMMITTEE ON FRIDAY.
>> Brown: WE'LL HAVE MORE ON THE
I.R.S. IN THE HOT SEAT AHEAD.
ALSO AHEAD: SEXUAL ASSAULTS IN
THE MILITARY; SURVEILLANCE
CAMERAS IN SAN FRANCISCO; A NEW
PUSH TO PREPARE CITIES FOR
NATURAL DISASTERS AND THE
ANGELINA EFFECT.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'S KWAME HOLMAN.
>> Holman: THE WHITE HOUSE HAS
RELEASED 100 PAGES OF E-MAILS
AND NOTES ON THE FATAL ATTACK ON
U.S. DIPLOMATS IN BENGHAZI,
LIBYA.
THE DOCUMENTS DESCRIBE HOW
OFFICIALS DEVELOPED TALKING
POINTS ABOUT THE ATTACK.
LAST WEEK, IT CAME OUT THAT
STATE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS AND
OTHERS LOBBIED TO REMOVE
REFERENCES TO AL-QAEDA AND
PREVIOUS WARNINGS.
WHITE HOUSE OFFICIALS DENY THERE
WAS ANY INTENT TO DECEIVE THE
PUBLIC.
THE U.N. GENERAL ASSEMBLY CALLED
AGAIN TODAY FOR A POLITICAL
TRANSITION IN SYRIA, BUT WITH
LESS SUPPORT THAN BEFORE.
AN ARAB-BACKED RESOLUTION
CONDEMNED PRESIDENT BASHAR ASSAD
AND HIS TROOPS FOR USING HEAVY
WEAPONS DURING THE MORE THAN
TWO-YEAR-LONG CONFLICT.
107 OF THE 193 MEMBER NATIONS
APPROVED THE DECLARATION.
LAST YEAR, 133 NATIONS SUPPORTED
A SIMILAR RESOLUTION.
A SERIE
TODAY KILLED AT LEAST 33 PEOPLE.
IT STARTED IN THE NORTHERN CITY
OF KIRKUK, WHERE TWO CAR BOMBS
EXPLODED IN THE SAME AREA AN
HOUR APART.
SEVEN PEOPLE WERE KILLED
INCLUDING TWO CHILDREN.
LATER, BOMBS EXPLODED IN SHI-ITE
SECTIONS OF BAGHDAD, TWO DOZEN
IRAQIS DIED THERE.
SCORES MORE WERE WOUNDED.
PALESTINIANS TODAY MARKED THE
65th ANNIVERSARY OF THE "NAKBA"
OR "CATASTROPHE"-- THE NAME FOR
THE DISPLACEMENT OF PALESTINIANS
DURING THE 1948 WAR OVER
ISRAEL'S CREATION.
TENS OF THOUSANDS MARCHED IN
RALLIES ACROSS GAZA AND THE WEST
BANK.
IN EAST JERUSALEM, PALESTINIAN
PROTESTERS CLASHED WITH ISRAELI
POLICE OFFICERS.
A POLICE SPOKESMAN SAID 19
DEMONSTRATORS WERE ARRESTED.
NASA MAY BE LOSING ONE OF ITS
STARS: THE KEPLER ORBITING
TELESCOPE.
KEPLER SEARCHES THE HEAVENS FOR
OTHER PLANETS, BUT THE SPACE
AGENCY SAID TODAY THE TELESCOPE
HAS LOST THE ABILITY TO CONTROL
ITS POSITION.
IF THE PROBLEM CAN'T BE FIXED,
KEPLER'S PLANET-HUNTING DAYS
WILL BE OVER.
SINCE 2009, THE TELESCOPE HAS
DISCOVERED 132 PLANETS AND
SPOTTED SIGNS OF ANOTHER 2,700
POSSIBLE PLANETS.
WALL STREET KEPT UP ITS FORWARD
PROGRESS TODAY.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 60 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,275.
THE NASDAQ ROSE NINE POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3,471.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JEFF.
>> Ifill: WE RETURN AGAIN TO THE
ISSUE OF SEXUAL ASSAULT IN THE
MILITARY, AS YET ANOTHER SHOE
DROPS AT THE PENTAGON.
MARGARET WARNER HAS MORE.
>> Warner: THE ARMY ANNOUNCED
LATE YESTERDAY THAT A SERGEANT
WHO HANDLED SEXUAL ASSAULT CASES
AT FORT HOOD, TEXAS IS BEING
CRIMINALLY INVESTIGATED ON SEX
CRIME ALLEGATIONS.
NO CHARGES HAVE BEEN FILED.
IN RESPONSE, DEFENSE SECRETARY
CHUCK HAGEL ORDERED THE PENTAGON
TO RE-TRAIN, RE-CREDENTIAL AND
RE-SCREEN ALL MILITARY
RECRUITERS AND SEXUAL ASSAULT
PREVENTION OFFICERS.
THE LATEST REVELATION COMES JUST
TEN DAYS AFTER THE AIR FORCE'S
SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION CHIEF
WAS ARRESTED ON CHARGES OF
SEXUAL BATTERY.
AND A PENTAGON SURVEY LAST WEEK
ESTIMATED THAT 26,000 MILITARY
MEMBERS WERE SEXUALLY ASSAULTED
LAST YEAR.
JOINING ME TO DISCUSS ALL THIS
IS CRAIG WHITLOCK OF THE
"WASHINGTON POST."
CRAIG, WELCOME BACK TO THE
PROGRAM.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Warner: SO THE SITUATION AT
FORT HOOD, WHAT IS ALLEGED TO
HAVE HAPPENED?
>> WELL, CRIMINAL INVESTIGATORS
FROM THE ARMY ARE LOOKING INTO
ALLEGATIONS THAT THE SERGEANT
COMMITTED SEXUAL ABUSE INVOLVING
MULTIPLE WOMEN AND IN ONE CASE
THEY'RE LOOKING INTO ALLEGATIONS
THAT HE MAY BE CHARGED WITH
PANDERING.
THAT'S MILITARY CRIME SPEAK FOR
ESSENTIALLY ORGANIZING
PROSTITUTION.
SO I THINK THIS IS A CASE THAT
NOT ONLY IS IT BAD ENOUGH AND
SHOCKING ENOUGH THAT A SEXUAL
PREVENTION OFFICER WAS INVOLVED
IN THIS KIND OF CRIME, BUT I
THINK PEOPLE ON CAPITOL HILL,
LAWMAKERS, ARE REALLY BAFFLED BY
THIS THAT SOMEONE COULD BE
PLACED IN THE KIND OF POSITION
THAT HE WAS.
>> Warner: AND, OF COURSE, THE
AIR FORCE COLONEL LAST WEEK WAS
ALSO IN THIS FIELD.
BUT EXPLAIN SECRETARY HAGEL'S
RESPONSE YESTERDAY, EVEN THOUGH
THERE HAS BEEN A DRIP-DRIP WITH
THESE CASES.
WHY DID HE RESPOND NOW THE WAY
HE DID WITH THIS NEW PROGRAM?
>> WELL, I THINK HE -- THE
PENTAGON SCRAMBLING TO FIGURE
OUT HOW IT SHOULD RESPOND.
THEY'RE REALIZING THIS IS A
SYSTEMIC PROBLEM NOT AN ISOLATED
CASE-BY-CASE THAT THEY HAVE A
REAL DIFFICULTY HERE IN
PROSECUTING, IDENTIFYING SEXUAL
ASSAULT CASES, HANDLING VICTIMS,
18 PEOPLE FEEL COMFORTABLE WITH
REPORTING THESE SORT OF CRIMES
SO WHAT HE DID LAST NIGHT IS HE
ANNOUNCED THAT THE PENTAGON IS
GOING TO RETRAIN, RESCREEN,
RECREDENTIAL ALL 9,000 SEXUAL
ASSAULT PREVENTION OFFICERS IN
THE MILITARY AS WELL AS
20,000 RECRUITERS.
AND I THINK THE ATTEMPT TO S TO
MAKE SURE NO OTHER PEOPLE WITH
PROBLEMATIC BACKGROUNDS ARE IN
THOSE JOBS.
>> Warner: YOU REPORTED THAT
MILITARY RECRUITERS THERE HAVE
BEEN PROBLEMS INVOLVING THEM AND
VERY YOUNG WOMEN.
>> THERE WAS A CASE IN MARYLAND
WHERE AN ARMY RECRUITER WAS
INVOLVED IN A MURDER/SUICIDE
WITH A YOUNG WOMAN.
HE WAS RECRUITING HER FOR THE
ARMY.
THERE WAS A CASE IN ALASKA JUST
THIS MONTH WHERE SOMEONE WAS
FOUND GUILTY IN A MARINE -- AND
THE MARINE JURY GAVE HIM NO JAIL
TIME AND THE PENTAGON DOESN'T
TRACK THESE CASES IN TERMS OF
STATISTICS SO THEY'RE SCRAMBLING
THERE.
>> Warner: DESCRIBE THE PRESSURE
SECRETARY HAGEL IS UNDER FROM
THE HILL AND THE OUTRAGE AND
WHERE THAT'S LEADING
POTENTIALLY.
>> WELL, LAWMAKERS HAVE BEEN
EXPRESSING CONCERNS ABOUT SEX
CRIMES IN THE MILITARY FOR A
NUMBER OF YEARS BUT THESE CASES,
THESE REPORTS HAVE FUELED THEIR
CONCERNS AND WHAT I THINK WE'RE
GOING SEE IS LEGISLATIVE CHANGE.
THE PENTAGON HAS RESISTED ANY
CHANGE TO MILITARY LAW THAT
WOULD TAKE POWER AWAY FROM
OVERSEE THESE CASES.
BUT THERE'S A POWERFUL PUSH
AMONG FEMALE LAW MAKERS TO MAKE
CHANGES TO MILITARY LAW IN THAT
REGARD.
>> Warner: LIKE SENATOR
GILLIBRAND.
WHY ARE MILITARY COMMANDERS--
AND ALL THE WAY UP INTO THE
PENTAGON-- SO RESIS TONIGHT THE
IDEA OF TRANSFERRING -- GIVING
THE AUTHORITY TO PROSECUTE THESE
CASES TO MILITARY LAWYERS?
>> THAT'S A GOOD QUESTION BUT TO
ANSWER THAT YOU HAVE TO
UNDERSTAND MILITARY CULTURE.
THE COMMANDERS HAVE THE POWER
AND AUTHORITY OVER EVERYTHING
WITHIN THEIR UNITS AND THEY'RE
CHARGED WITH THIS VERY IMPORTANT
RESPONSIBILITY OF TAKING CARE OF
THEIR PEOPLE, OF OVERSEEING GOOD
ORDER AND DISCIPLINE TO TAKE
THAT POWER AWAY FROM MILITARY
COMMANDERS, IN ESSENCE, AS A WAY
OF SAYING THEY WERE UNABLE TO
HANDLE THIS PROBLEM THAT THEY
CAN'T BE TRUSTED WITH THAT.
I THINK A LOT OF THEM,
PARTICULARLY THE HONORABLE ONES,
ARE UNKRTABLE WITH THAT.
THERE ARE OTHERS WHO SAY, YEAH,
THIS IS A PROBLEM, WE'RE NOT
LEGALLY TRAINED, WE'RE NOT
JUDGES THAT WE SHOULD HAND THIS
OFF TO LEGAL PROFESSIONALS AND
THAT WOULD SAVE THEM HEADACHES
AND THAT'S THE BATTLE WE'RE
SEEING RIGHT NOW ON CAPITOL
HILL.
>>.
>> Warner: AND WHERE IS
SECRETARY HAGEL ON THIS?
I NOTICED HIS SPOKESMAN WROTE A
LETR TOTE THE "NEW YORK TIMES"
DISPUTING THE WAY SECRETARY
HAGEL'S VIEWS WERE
CHARACTERIZED.
>> WELL, THAT'S RIGHT.
BUT I THINK HIS VIEWS HAVE
CHANGED ON THIS CHAIN OF COMMAND
WHETHER COMMANDERS WILL HAVE THE
ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITIES FOR
THESE CASES OR NOT.
I WAS THERE WHEN HAGEL WAS ASKED
LAST WEEK AT A PRESS CONFERENCE
DO YOU SUPPORT THIS OR NOT AND
HE WAS DIRECT IN SAYING NO, WE
DON'T WANT TO TAKE THIS
RESPONSIBILITY AWAY FROM
COMMANDERS.
IN JUST A MATTER OF DAYS THEY
BACKED OFF THAT.
NOW SENATOR GILLIBRAND TOLD ME
SHE TALKED TO HAGEL AFTER THAT
AND SHE PUT THE SCREWS TO HIM
AND SAID WHILE HE'S LISTENING
HE'S KEEPING AN OPEN MIND SO I
THINK WE ARE SEEING SOME CHANGES
IN THE PENTAGON'S RECEPTIVENESS.
>> Warner: CRAIG WHITLOCK OF THE
"WASHINGTON POST."
THANK YOU.
>> SURE THING.
>> Brown: PRESIDENT OBAMA MADE A
>> Brown: THE INVESTIGATION INTO
THE BOSTON BOMBINGS HAS SPARKED
A NEW INTEREST IN THE USE OF
SURVEILLANCE CAMERAS IN CITIES
AROUND THE NATION.
"NEWSHOUR" CORRESPONDENT SPENCER
MICHELS HAS OUR REPORT.
>> Reporter: AMERICANS ARE USED
TO BEING WATCHED ON CLOSED
CIRCUIT TV.
MERCAAS ARE UNIBIQUITOUS,
ESPECIALLY IN LARGE CITIES.
THE VIDEO SURVEILLANCE INDUSTRY
BRINGS IN $3.2 BILLION A YEAR
AND IT'S EXPECTED TO GROW
QUICKLY, ESPECIALLY AFTER THE
BOSTON MARATHON BOMBINGS.
O
FRANCISCO, 22 CAMERAS
CONTINUALLY WATCH EMPLOYEES AND
GUESTS ENTER AND LEAVE THE
BUILDING AND DRIVE THEIR CARS
INTO AND OUT OF THE GARAGE.
IT'S ALL RECORDED FOR FUTURE
USE.
A GUARD MONITORS THE CAMERAS IN
REAL TIME AND ONE NIGHT RECENTLY
THOSE CAMERAS CAUGHT THIS SCENE:
A WOMAN EMPLOYEE GOING TO HER
CAR ON THE STREET, WHILE A MALE
WATCHES HER AND STARTS TO
FOLLOW.
AS HE CIRCLES BACK TO HER CAR,
FOR SOME REASON, HE SEES OTHER
VEHICLES APPROACHING AND HE
MAKES A QUICK EXIT.
WOULD THE CAMERAS HAVE HELPED
HAD THERE BEEN A CRIME?
COULD THEIR MORE OBVIOUS
PRESENCE HAVE PREVENTED ONE?
IT'S ALL PART OF TODAY'S DEBATE
OVER SURVEILLANCE.
>> IF YOU COULD HAVE A BIRD'S
EYE VIEW.
>> Reporter: SAN FRANCISCO'S
POLICE CHIEF-- LIKE MANY CHIEFS
THROUGH THE COUNTRY-- IS
CONVINCED THAT CAMERAS CAN MAKE
A BIG DIFFERENCE.
AND THESE DAYS THEY ARE POINTING
TO BOSTON AND THE IDENTIFICATION
OF TWO SUSPECTS, AS AN ARGUMENT
TO EXPAND THEIR USE.
CHIEF GREG SUHR HAS MADE A
CONTROVERSIAL PLEA TO THE BOARD
OF SUPERVISORS FOR INCREASED
CAMERA SURVEILLANCE OF HIS CITY,
ESPECIALLY ALONG THE ROUTE OF
UPCOMING RACES AND PARADES,
STARTING BY FINDING WHAT ALREADY
IS IN PLACE, AND WHAT ISN'T.
>> WE WANT TO MAP ALL THE
CAMERAS UP AND DOWN MARKET
STREET.
IN BOSTON, THEY WENT THROUGH
HUNDREDS AND THOUSANDS OF HOURS
OF VIDEO AND WERE ABLE TO MAKE
THAT CASE IN DAYS.
>> Reporter: IN AN INTERVIEW,
THE CHIEF TOLD ME VIDEO EVIDENCE
IS ALMOST EXPECTED THESE DAYS.
>> EVERYBODY LIKES VIDEO, JURIES
LIKE VIDEO, INVESTIGATORS LIKE
VIDEO, PROSECUTORS LIKE VIDEO.
AND I THINK LOOKING AT THE
BOSTON MARATHON, THEY MADE THAT
CASE OFF OF VIDEO, SO I PROPOSED
THAT WE FIND OUT WHAT WE HAVE,
BOTH PRIVATE AND PUBLIC ALONG
OUR MAIN PARADE ROUTE AND SEE IF
WE CAN'T IDENTIFY BLIND SPOTS.
>> Reporter: WHAT THE CHIEF IS
CONCERNED ABOUT RIGHT NOW IS
SECURITY FOR A SERIES OF POPULAR
UPCOMING EVENTS:
THE BAY TO BREAKERS, A COLORFUL
FOOTRACE FROM THE BAY TO THE
PACIFIC OCEAN WHICH ATTRACTS
THOUSANDS OF RUNNERS AND PERHAPS
100,000 SPECTATORS AND WHERE
BACKPACKS WERE RECENTLY BANNED.
THE PRIDE MARCH THAT EVERY YEAR
FEATURES GAYS, LESBIANS,
TRANSGENDER, BISEXUALS IN
OUTLANDISH COSTUMES TRAIPSING
THROUGH THE CITY,
DEMONSTRATIONS SURROUNDING THE
CONTENTIOUS ISSUES OF SAME SEX
MARRIAGE AND IMMIGRATION, WHICH
TAKE PLACE FREQUENTLY IN THE BAY
AREA.
AND THE AMERICA'S CUP RACES,
THIS SUMMER IN THE BAY, WITH
THOUSANDS EXPECTED TO WATCH FROM
THE SHORE.
THE CITY IS GEARING UP FOR THESE
EVENTS WITH BOMB SNIFFING DOGS
AND HELP FROM THE F.B.I.
BUT POLICE SAY THEY WELCOME ANY
HELP.
FOR ALL THE CAMERAS ON ITS
STREETS, MOST IN HIGH CRIME
AREAS, SAN FRANCISCO DOES NOT
ALLOW REAL TIME MONITORING OF
CITY-OWNED SURVEILLANCE CAMERAS;
THE VIDEO CAN ONLY BE VIEWED
TERWAFARDS, IF THERE'S A CRIME.
BUT AFTER BOSTON, THE CHIEF
WANTS TO MODIFY THAT POLICY FOR
BIG EVENTS.
AND THAT HAS SET OFF A DEBATE.
>> THAT WOULD BE ANOTHER SET OF
EYES, I MEAN, OBVIOUSLY THE
PACKAGES IN THE MARATHON WERE ON
THE GROUND FOR A PERIOD OF TIME,
AND THEY WENT UNDETECTED.
>> Reporter: BUT THAT'S REAL
TIME KIND OF MONITORING WHICH
YOU SAY THAT YOU'RE NOT ALLOWED
TO DO.
>> MY ASK WOULD BE THAT WE GO
AWAY FROM THE CITY POLICY WHERE
WE DON'T MONITOR IN REAL TIME,
WHERE WE HAVE TENS OF THOUSANDS
OF PEOPLE AND THE CROWDS ALONG
OUR MAJOR PARADE ROUTES.
THESE ENTS VEARE ON TELEVISION
REGARDLESS.
>> Reporter: AFTER BOSTON,
SURVEYS SHOW THAT 70% OF
AMERICANS SUPPORT SURVEILLANCE
CAMERAS AS A WAY TO REDUCE
CRIME.
>> IT'S A GREAT THING IF YOU'RE
ABLE TO CATCH SOMEBODY.
I HAVE NO PROBLEM WITH THEM AS
LONG AS YOU'RE NOT DOING
ANYTHING ILLEGAL.
MOST OF THE TIME I'M UNAWARE
THEY'RE EVEN THERE, SO I THINK
IT'S GREAT.
>> Reporter: BUT NOT EVERYONE IS
SO COMFORTABLE WITH THE CHIEF'S
PROPOSAL.
>> I THINK HE'S ALREADY WATCHING
US ENOUGH, YOU KNOW, LOOK AT ALL
THESE CAMERAS.
LIKE ME AND MY BROTHER WERE JUST
CHILLING, BECAUSE OF THE
CAMERAS, THEY SAID MOVE.
IT CAN BE BAD, AND RACIALLY
PROFILING AT THE SAME TIME.
>> Reporter: AMERICAN CIVIL
LIBERTIES UNION ATTORNEY NICOLE
OZER IS ALSO WORRIED ABOUT
CAMERAS INVADING PRIVACY IN A
POLITICALLY ACTIVE CITY WHERE
THAT HAS LONG BEEN AN ISSUE.
>> CAMERAS ARE RIPE FOR ABUSE.
THEY'RE TAKING FOOTAGE OF... OF
PEOPLE ENGAGED IN POLITICAL
PROTESTS.
CAMERAS DON'T PREVENT TERRORISM.
THEY DON'T REDUCE VIOLENCE.
CAMERAS DIDN'T PREVENT OR REDUCE
VIOLENCE IN LONDON, THEY DIDN'T
PREVENT OR REDUCE VIOLENCE IN
BOSTON, AND IT'S ESSENTIAL THAT
WE NOT TRADE OUR PRIVACY AND
FREE SPEECH RIGHTS FOR JUST THE
ILLUSION OF SAFETY.
>> Reporter: OZER MAINTAINS THAT
SAN FRANCISCO'S CAMERAS,
INSTALLED TO PREVENT CRIME, LIKE
THOSE IN MANY OTHER CITIES,
HAVE NOT ACHIEVED THEIR GOAL.
AND SHE CITES A STUDY MADE BY
RESEARCHERS AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
CALIFORNIA BERKELEY, LED BY
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF
INFORMATION DEIRDRE MULLIGAN.
>> WHAT WE FOUND IN SAN
FRANCISCO WITH RESPECT TO THIS
SET OF CAMERAS IS THAT THEY
DIDN'T HAVE THE DESIRED EFFECT,
WHICH WAS REALLY ABOUT REDUCING
VIOLENT CRIME.
AND ONE CAN IMAGINE IF YOU
DEPLOY CAMERAS, FOR EXAMPLE, TO
DEAL WITH TERRORISTS, MANY
TERRORISTS ARE PLANNING TO DIE
ANYWAY, RIGHT, AND THE FACT THAT
THEY'RE BEING FILMED IN THEIR
MOMENT OF MARTYRDOM ISN'T REALLY
GOING TO DETER THEM.
>> Reporter: MULLIGAN CONTENDS
THE POLICE CAN'T RELY ON
CAMERAS.
>> YOU NEED PEOPLE ON THE
GROUND, RIGHT?
THERE ARE MILLIONS OF BACKPACKS,
RIGHT, AND KNOWING WHEN SOMEBODY
PUTS DOWN A BACKPACK AND WHETHER
OF NOT THAT'S A SUSPICIOUS
ACTIVITY, WHEN YOU'RE MILES AWAY
IN A CAMERA BOOTH AND YOU'VE
BEEN WATCHING FOOTAGE FOR EIGHT
HOURS THAT DAY IS REALLY A TALL
ORDER.
>> Reporter: STILL, IN THE FACE
OF SUCH OBJECTIONS FROM CIVIL
RIGHTS ADVOCATES, THE POLICE
CHIEF IS NOT BACKING DOWN.
CHIEF SUHR SEES VIDEO TECHNOLOGY
AS PROMISING.
>> THEY HAVE CAMERAS NOW THAT
ARE SO SOPHISTICATED THAT THEY
HAVE VIDEO ANALYTICS IN THEM
WHERE YOU CAN SAY THINGS LIKE A
PACKAGE CANNOT BE ON THE GROUND
FOR MORE THAN 30 SECONDS, AND
THE CAMERA WILL ACTUALLY BOX THE
ITEM AND SEND OFF AN ALERT TO
WHOEVER IS MONITORING THE
CAMERAS
>> Reporter: THAT'S THE KIND OF
TECHNIQUES THEY'RE DEVELOPING AT
3VR.
USING COMPUTER PROGRAMS THEY CAN
SEARCH LARGE QUANTITIES OF VIDEO
LOOKING FOR PEOPLE, OR CARS, OR
OBJECTS WITHOUT SOMEONE ACTUALLY
LOOKING AT THE SCREEN FOR HOURS.
>> IT WOULD ALLOW YOU TO CUT
DOWN ON YOUR SEARCH TIME
EXPONENTIALLY, BY THE POWER OF
TEN.
>> Reporter: AND IT'S ALL DONE
BY THE MACHINE, BY THE COMPUTER.
>> YES, THAT'S CORRECT.
>> Reporter: I DON'T HAVE TO
LOOK FOR THIS GUY, OH THERE HE
IS, THERE HE IS.
>> CORRECT.
ONCE WE HAVE THIS FACIAL
BIOMETRIC PARAMETERS CAPTURED,
ITS INDEXED WITHIN OUR DATABASE,
THEN WE MATCH SIMILARITIES TO
THAT FACIAL PROFILE, IF YOU
WILL, D BANRING UP ALL THE
SIMILARITIES TO THAT FACE.
>> Reporter: AND THEY CAN DO THE
SAME THING WITH SUSPECT CARS
THAT ARE RECORDED ON A GIVEN
STREET, USING COLOR, SIZE AND
DIRECTION TO MAKE THE MATCH.
JOE BOISSY, 3VR'S MARKETING
OFFICER, SAYS THE POTENTIAL IS
GREAT.
>> A COMPUTER VISION ALGORITHM
ALLOWS YOU TO UNDERSTAND THE
PIXELS, THE FRAMES, WHAT'S
HAPPENING IN THAT VIDEO, AND
FROM THAT EXTRACT THE
INFORMATION THAT YOU NEED, SUCH
AS THE FACIAL CHARACTERISTICS,
THE LICENSE PLATE ITSELF, THE
COLOR, THE HEIGHT, THE AGE, THE
GENDER, ANY KIND OF DEMOGRAPHICS
OF INDIVIDUALS CAN BE EXTRACTED
FROM THE VIDEO.
>> Reporter: BUT, WARNS BOISSY,
EVEN HIS COMPANY'S MACHINES
CAN'T BE EXPECTED TO WORK
WONDERS.
>> THE REALITY IS WHEN YOU TCHWA
"24", WHEN YOU WATCH "CSI," YOU
I FIND A GUY, THEN RUN FACIAL
RECOGNITION, THEN FIND HIM.
THIS IS THEORY AND FICTION MORE
THAN REALITY.
THAT REALITY IS THAT IN CERTAIN
CONDITIONS, YES, IT IS EASY.
WITH THE RIGHT LIGHTING
CONDITIONS, YES, YOU CAN DO
THAT.
BUT IN MOST OF THE CASES, YOU
HAVE SITUATIONS WHICH ARE NOT
IDEAL, BUT STILL ENOUGH TO HELP
YOU OUT GOING INTO YOUR SEARCH
IN A MUCH FASTER WAY.
>> Reporter: MEANWHILE, SAN
FRANCISCO IS ALREADY GEARING UP
FOR THE BAY TO BREAKERS RACE ON
MAY 19.
THE POLICE WON'T BE ABLE TO MAKE
ANY CHANGES BY THEN, BUT THE
CHIEF HOPES TO FINISH HIS
MAPPING OF SURVEILLANCE CAMERAS-
- PUBLIC AND PRIVATE-- BY THE
END OF JUNE, WHEN THE BIG PRIDE
PARADE MARCHES DOWN MARKET
STREET.
>> Ifill: PRESIDENT OBAMA MADE A
STATEMENT ABOUT THE I.R.S.
SCANDAL JUST A FEW MINUTES AGO.
HE SPOKE IN THE EAST ROOM OF THE
WHITE HOUSE.
HE SPOKE AT THE EAST ROOM OF THE
>> FIRST, WE'RE GOING TO HOLD
WHITE HOUSE.
THE RESPONSIBLE PARTIES
>> FIRST, WE'RE GOING TO HOLD
ACCOUNTABLE.
THE RESPONSIBLE PARTIES
YESTERDAY I DIRECTED SECRETARY
ACCOUNTABLE.
LEW TO FOLLOW UP ON THE I.G.
YESTERDAY I DIRECTED SECRETARY
AUDIT TO SEE HOW THIS HAPPENED
LEW TO FOLLOW UP ON THE I.G.
AND WHO WAS RESPONSIBLE AND TO
AUDIT TO SEE HOW THIS HAPPENED
MAKE SURE THAT WE UNDERSTAND ALL
AND WHO WAS RESPONSIBLE AND TO
THE FACTS.
MAKE SURE THAT WE UNDERSTAND ALL
TODAY SECRETARY LEW TOOK THE
THE FACTS.
FIRST STEP BY REQUESTING AND
TODAY SECRETARY LEW TOOK THE
ACCEPTING THE RESIGNATION OF THE
FIRST STEP BY REQUESTING AND
ACTING COMMISSIONER OF THE
ACCEPTING THE RESIGNATION OF THE
I.R.S. BECAUSE GIVEN THE
ACTING COMMISSIONER OF THE
CONTROVERSY SURROUNDING THIS
I.R.S. BECAUSE GIVEN THE
AUDIT IT'S IMPORTANT TO
CONTROVERSY SURROUNDING THIS
INSTITUTE NEW LEADERSHIP THAT
AUDIT IT'S IMPORTANT TO
CAN HELP RESTORE CONFIDENCE
INSTITUTE NEW LEADERSHIP THAT
GOING FORWARD.
CAN HELP RESTORE CONFIDENCE
SECOND, WE'RE GOING TO PUT IN
GOING FORWARD.
PLACE NEW SAFEGUARDS TO MAKE
SECOND, WE'RE GOING TO PUT IN
SURE THIS KIND OF BEHAVIOR
PLACE NEW SAFEGUARDS TO MAKE
CANNOT HAPPEN AGAIN.
SURE THIS KIND OF BEHAVIOR
AND I'VE DIRECTED SECRETARY LEW
CANNOT HAPPEN AGAIN.
TO ENSURE THE I.R.S. BEGINS
AND I'VE DIRECTED SECRETARY LEW
IMPLEMENTING THE I.G.'S
TO ENSURE THE I.R.S. BEGINS
RECOMMENDATIONS RIGHT AWAY.
IMPLEMENTING THE I.G.'S
THIRD, WE WILL WORK WITH
RECOMMENDATIONS RIGHT AWAY.
CONGRESS AS IT PERFORMS ITS
THIRD, WE WILL WORK WITH
OVERSIGHT ROLE.
CONGRESS AS IT PERFORMS ITS
AND OUR ADMINISTRATION HAS TO
OVERSIGHT ROLE.
MAKE SURE THAT WE ARE WORKING
AND OUR ADMINISTRATION HAS TO
HAND IN HAND WITH CONGRESS TO
MAKE SURE THAT WE ARE WORKING
GET THIS THING FIXED.
HAND IN HAND WITH CONGRESS TO
CONGRESS-- DEMOCRATS AND
GET THIS THING FIXED.
REPUBLICANS-- OWE IT TO THE
CONGRESS-- DEMOCRATS AND
AMERICAN PEOPLE TO TREAT THAT
REPUBLICANS-- OWE IT TO THE
AUTHORITY WITH THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE TO TREAT THAT
RESPONSIBILITY IT DESERVES AND A
AUTHORITY WITH THE
WAY THAT DOESN'T SMACK OF
RESPONSIBILITY IT DESERVES AND A
POLITICS OR PARTISAN AGENDAS
WAY THAT DOESN'T SMACK OF
BECAUSE I THINK THAT ONE THING
POLITICS OR PARTISAN AGENDAS
THAT YOU HAVE SEEN IS ACROSS THE
BECAUSE I THINK THAT ONE THING
BOARD EVERYBODY BELIEVES WHAT
THAT YOU HAVE SEEN IS ACROSS THE
HAPPENED AS REPORTED IN THE I.G.
BOARD EVERYBODY BELIEVES WHAT
REPORT IS AN OUTRAGE.
HAPPENED AS REPORTED IN THE I.G.
THE GOOD NEWS IS IT'S FIXABLE
REPORT IS AN OUTRAGE.
AND IT'S IN EVERYONE'S BEST
THE GOOD NEWS IS IT'S FIXABLE
INTEREST TO WORK TOGETHER TO FIX
AND IT'S IN EVERYONE'S BEST
IT.
INTEREST TO WORK TOGETHER TO FIX
>> Brown: AND WE PICK UP ON SOME
IT.
OF THE LATEST DEVELOPMENTS AND
>> Brown: AND WE PICK UP ON SOME
LINGERING QUESTIONS ON THE
OF THE LATEST DEVELOPMENTS AND
I.R.S. STORY AND MORE.
LINGERING QUESTIONS ON THE
FOR THAT, WE'RE JOINED BY:
I.R.S. STORY AND MORE.
JOSH GERSTEIN OF POLITICO, WHO
FOR THAT, WE'RE JOINED BY:
COVERS THE WHITE HOUSE
JOSH GERSTEIN OF POLITICO, WHO
SPECIALIZING IN LEGAL AND
COVERS THE WHITE HOUSE
NATIONAL SECURITY ISSUES.
SPECIALIZING IN LEGAL AND
HE WAS AT TODAY'S HOUSE HEARING.
NATIONAL SECURITY ISSUES.
AND PAUL STRECKFUS, CREATOR AND
HE WAS AT TODAY'S HOUSE HEARING.
EDITOR OF "E.O. TAX JOURNAL"--
AND PAUL STRECKFUS, CREATOR AND
A WEEKLY NEWSLETTER FOCUSED ON
EDITOR OF "E.O. TAX JOURNAL"--
TAX EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS.
A WEEKLY NEWSLETTER FOCUSED ON
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
TAX EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS.
WELL, JOSH, THE PRESIDENT FELT
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
HE HAD TO COME OUT AND DO
WELL, JOSH, THE PRESIDENT FELT
SOMETHING QUICKLY.
HE HAD TO COME OUT AND DO
>> Pelley: YEAH, JEFF, THIS IS A
SOMETHING QUICKLY.
WHITE HOUSE IN FIREFIGHTING MODE
>> Pelley: YEAH, JEFF, THIS IS A
TODAY, NOT JUST ON THE I.R.S.
WHITE HOUSE IN FIREFIGHTING MODE
STORY BUT ON THE BENGHAZI STORY
TODAY, NOT JUST ON THE I.R.S.
AND AS WELL AS ITS A.P. LEAKS
STORY BUT ON THE BENGHAZI STORY
INVESTIGATION.
AND AS WELL AS ITS A.P. LEAKS
JUST A CLEAR INITIATIVE FROM THE
INVESTIGATION.
WHITE HOUSE TO TRY TO PUT SOME
JUST A CLEAR INITIATIVE FROM THE
COLD WATER ON ALL THESE STORIES
WHITE HOUSE TO TRY TO PUT SOME
AND TO DO IT AS QUICKLY AS
COLD WATER ON ALL THESE STORIES
POSSIBLE SO THEY CAN TURN THE
AND TO DO IT AS QUICKLY AS
PAGE AND GET BACK TO SOME OF THE
POSSIBLE SO THEY CAN TURN THE
POLICY ITEMS ON THEIR AGENDA
PAGE AND GET BACK TO SOME OF THE
THAT THEY'RE EAGER TO DEAL WITH.
POLICY ITEMS ON THEIR AGENDA
>> Brown: HE SAID THE OTHER DAY
THAT THEY'RE EAGER TO DEAL WITH.
THAT THE OUTRAGE WAS THERE BUT
>> Brown: HE SAID THE OTHER DAY
HE WAS WAITING FOR THE INSPECTOR
THAT THE OUTRAGE WAS THERE BUT
GENERALS REPORT.
HE WAS WAITING FOR THE INSPECTOR
WE HEARD HIM REFER TO THAT.
GENERALS REPORT.
THAT CAME YESTERDAY.
WE HEARD HIM REFER TO THAT.
>> RIGHT.
THAT CAME YESTERDAY.
AND THIS HAS BEEN A VERY
>> RIGHT.
DIFFICULT STORY FOR THE WHITE
AND THIS HAS BEEN A VERY
HOUSE BECAUSE IT'S NOT AN AGENCY
DIFFICULT STORY FOR THE WHITE
THAT THE WHITE HOUSE HAS MUCH
HOUSE BECAUSE IT'S NOT AN AGENCY
CONTROL OVER FOR OBVIOUS REASONS
THAT THE WHITE HOUSE HAS MUCH
DATING BACK TO THE NIXON YEARS.
CONTROL OVER FOR OBVIOUS REASONS
AND SUDDENLY THEY FIND
DATING BACK TO THE NIXON YEARS.
THEMSELVES CONFRONTED WITH A
AND SUDDENLY THEY FIND
PLITALLY VOLATILE CONTROVERSY AT
THEMSELVES CONFRONTED WITH A
AN AGENCY WHERE THEY STRESS THAT
PLITALLY VOLATILE CONTROVERSY AT
THEY HAVE ONLY TWO PRESIDENTIAL
AN AGENCY WHERE THEY STRESS THAT
APPOINTEES.
THEY HAVE ONLY TWO PRESIDENTIAL
SO IT TOOK NAME WHILE TO GET
APPOINTEES.
INTO A PROACTIVE MODE TO KNOCK
SO IT TOOK NAME WHILE TO GET
THIS DOWN.
INTO A PROACTIVE MODE TO KNOCK
>> Brown: WELL, PAUL STRECKFUS,
THIS DOWN.
TELL US A LITTLE BIT ABOUT THIS
>> Brown: WELL, PAUL STRECKFUS,
INDEPENDENCE AND WHO'S WHO HERE.
TELL US A LITTLE BIT ABOUT THIS
FIRST OF ALL, THE ACTING
INDEPENDENCE AND WHO'S WHO HERE.
DIRECTOR WHO'S JUST LEFT OR BEEN
FIRST OF ALL, THE ACTING
RESIGNED, I GUESS, IS THE WAY TO
DIRECTOR WHO'S JUST LEFT OR BEEN
LOOK AT IT.
RESIGNED, I GUESS, IS THE WAY TO
>> I PERSONALLY FEEL THAT IT'S A
LOOK AT IT.
LOSS FOR THE AMERICAN TAXPAYERS
>> I PERSONALLY FEEL THAT IT'S A
AND THE I.R.S. THAT STEVE MILLER
LOSS FOR THE AMERICAN TAXPAYERS
HAS BEEN FORCED OUT.
AND THE I.R.S. THAT STEVE MILLER
HE'S A DEDICATED PUBLIC SERVANT.
HAS BEEN FORCED OUT.
THERE WAS NOTHING IN THE REPORT
HE'S A DEDICATED PUBLIC SERVANT.
THAT SAID THAT THERE WAS ANY
THERE WAS NOTHING IN THE REPORT
POLITICAL FAVORITISM.
THAT SAID THAT THERE WAS ANY
TRUE THERE APPEARED TO BE SOME
POLITICAL FAVORITISM.
MANAGERIAL INCOMPETENCE BUT I'M
TRUE THERE APPEARED TO BE SOME
NOT SURE YOU FORCE SOMEONE OUT
MANAGERIAL INCOMPETENCE BUT I'M
ON THAT BASIS ESPECIALLY WHEN
NOT SURE YOU FORCE SOMEONE OUT
THAT INDIVIDUAL PROBABLY IN THE
ON THAT BASIS ESPECIALLY WHEN
BEST POSITION TO MAKE THE
THAT INDIVIDUAL PROBABLY IN THE
REFORMS THAT ARE NEEDED.
BEST POSITION TO MAKE THE
>> Brown: HOW MUCH INDEPENDENCE
REFORMS THAT ARE NEEDED.
DOES THE I.R.S. HAVE IN MAKING
>> Brown: HOW MUCH INDEPENDENCE
THE KINDS OF DECISIONS ABOUT
DOES THE I.R.S. HAVE IN MAKING
TAX-EXEMPT STATUS AND THE KINDS
THE KINDS OF DECISIONS ABOUT
THAT ARE BEING -- SO MUCH IN
TAX-EXEMPT STATUS AND THE KINDS
FOCUS RIGHT NOW?
THAT ARE BEING -- SO MUCH IN
>> WELL, THEY ARE SUPPOSED TO BE
FOCUS RIGHT NOW?
INDEPENDENT THERE'S -- I BELIEVE
>> WELL, THEY ARE SUPPOSED TO BE
IT'S A LAW THAT SAYS THE WHITE
INDEPENDENT THERE'S -- I BELIEVE
HOUSE CANNOT DAKT I.R.S.
IT'S A LAW THAT SAYS THE WHITE
COMMISSIONER OR ANYONE AT THE
HOUSE CANNOT DAKT I.R.S.
I.R.S. DIRECTLY.
COMMISSIONER OR ANYONE AT THE
THOSE CONTACTS HAVE TO BE DONE
I.R.S. DIRECTLY.
THROUGH THE TREASURY SECRETARY
THOSE CONTACTS HAVE TO BE DONE
JACK LEW.
THROUGH THE TREASURY SECRETARY
SO IT'S POSSIBLE THAT THE WHITE
JACK LEW.
HOUSE COULD HAVE SOME IMPACT BUT
SO IT'S POSSIBLE THAT THE WHITE
THEY'D HAVE TO DO IT THROUGH
HOUSE COULD HAVE SOME IMPACT BUT
TREASURY SECRETARY, HE WOULD
THEY'D HAVE TO DO IT THROUGH
THEN HAVE TO TALK TO THE
TREASURY SECRETARY, HE WOULD
COMMISSIONER.
THEN HAVE TO TALK TO THE
HE WOULD THEN HAVE TO TALK TO
COMMISSIONER.
HIS EMPLOYEES.
HE WOULD THEN HAVE TO TALK TO
HAVING WORKED AT THE I.R.S., I
HIS EMPLOYEES.
KNOW THAT WOULD GET OUT TO THE
HAVING WORKED AT THE I.R.S., I
PUBLIC VERY QUICKLY FROM THAT
KNOW THAT WOULD GET OUT TO THE
KIND OF ACTIVITY WAS OCCURRING.
PUBLIC VERY QUICKLY FROM THAT
SO IT SEEMS TO ME THAT MUCH OF A
KIND OF ACTIVITY WAS OCCURRING.
TALK IS ABOUT POLITICAL
SO IT SEEMS TO ME THAT MUCH OF A
FAVORITISM AND YET I SEE VERY
TALK IS ABOUT POLITICAL
LITTLE EVIDENCE THAT THERE WAS
FAVORITISM AND YET I SEE VERY
AN INTENT TO GO AFTER THE TEA
LITTLE EVIDENCE THAT THERE WAS
PARTY GROUPS AND LET OTHERS HAVE
AN INTENT TO GO AFTER THE TEA
A FREE PASS.
PARTY GROUPS AND LET OTHERS HAVE
>> Brown: WELL, WHAT KIND OF
A FREE PASS.
FIREWALLS EXIST TO PREVENT
>> Brown: WELL, WHAT KIND OF
POLITICS FROM ENTERING INTO
FIREWALLS EXIST TO PREVENT
THESE KINDS OF DECISIONS.
POLITICS FROM ENTERING INTO
>> WELL, JUST AS I SAID, THE
THESE KINDS OF DECISIONS.
WHITE HOUSE IS ISOLATED.
>> WELL, JUST AS I SAID, THE
THE I.R.S. IS VERY MUCH
WHITE HOUSE IS ISOLATED.
NON-PARTISAN.
THE I.R.S. IS VERY MUCH
MOST FOLKS AT THE I.R.S. ARE NOT
NON-PARTISAN.
INVOLVED IN POLITICS.
MOST FOLKS AT THE I.R.S. ARE NOT
IT'S -- FROM DAY ONE YOU'RE TOLD
INVOLVED IN POLITICS.
NOT TO FAVOR ANY PARTICULAR
IT'S -- FROM DAY ONE YOU'RE TOLD
GROUP OR INDIVIDUAL.
NOT TO FAVOR ANY PARTICULAR
IF YOU ARE A NEW EMPLOYEE AND
GROUP OR INDIVIDUAL.
YOU DID SOMEONE WOULD QUICKLY
IF YOU ARE A NEW EMPLOYEE AND
COME BY AND SAY, YOU KNOW, WE
YOU DID SOMEONE WOULD QUICKLY
CANNOT BULLPEN TAKING POSITIONS.
COME BY AND SAY, YOU KNOW, WE
>> Brown: BUT THAT'S THE
CANNOT BULLPEN TAKING POSITIONS.
QUESTION BECAUSE THERE IS THIS
>> Brown: BUT THAT'S THE
NEW QUESTION OF POTENTIAL ROGUES
QUESTION BECAUSE THERE IS THIS
WITHIN THE AGENCY.
NEW QUESTION OF POTENTIAL ROGUES
COULD IT BE ISOLATED TO A FEW
WITHIN THE AGENCY.
PEOPLE OR IS THERE ENOUGH
COULD IT BE ISOLATED TO A FEW
OVERSIGHT THAT SOMEBODY WOULD
PEOPLE OR IS THERE ENOUGH
SEE THIS, SOMEBODY WOULD STEP
OVERSIGHT THAT SOMEBODY WOULD
IN?
SEE THIS, SOMEBODY WOULD STEP
WHO WOULD THAT SOMEBODY BE?
IN?
>> WELL, IT COULD BE ANYWHERE ON
WHO WOULD THAT SOMEBODY BE?
THE CHAIN.
>> WELL, IT COULD BE ANYWHERE ON
I RECALL MANY YEARS AGO WHEN I
THE CHAIN.
WAS AT THE I.R.S. THERE WERE TWO
I RECALL MANY YEARS AGO WHEN I
INDIVIDUALS WHO ACTUALLY WERE
WAS AT THE I.R.S. THERE WERE TWO
ABLE TO SORT OF PUT THEIR VIEWS
INDIVIDUALS WHO ACTUALLY WERE
INTO ACTION THROUGH THEIR
ABLE TO SORT OF PUT THEIR VIEWS
POSITION.
INTO ACTION THROUGH THEIR
BUT THE SUPERVISORS AND OTHERS
POSITION.
QUICKLY BECAME AWARE OF WHAT WAS
BUT THE SUPERVISORS AND OTHERS
GOING ON AND STEPPED IN AND
QUICKLY BECAME AWARE OF WHAT WAS
BASICALLY SEPARATED THEM AND
GOING ON AND STEPPED IN AND
SAID "THIS IS NOT THE WAY WE
BASICALLY SEPARATED THEM AND
OPERATE."
SAID "THIS IS NOT THE WAY WE
I FOLLOW THIS EXEMPT
OPERATE."
ORGANIZATIONS AREA OVER THE
I FOLLOW THIS EXEMPT
YEARS AND FOLLOWED THE I.R.S.
ORGANIZATIONS AREA OVER THE
FUNCTION VERY CLOSELY.
YEARS AND FOLLOWED THE I.R.S.
I SEE NO EVIDENCE THAT ANYONE
FUNCTION VERY CLOSELY.
THERE IS INVOLVED IN FAVORING
I SEE NO EVIDENCE THAT ANYONE
REPUBLICANS OVER DEMOCRATS OR
THERE IS INVOLVED IN FAVORING
VICE VERSA.
REPUBLICANS OVER DEMOCRATS OR
>> Pelley: BUT EVEN WITH THESE
VICE VERSA.
REVELATIONS ABOUT LOOKING AT THE
>> Pelley: BUT EVEN WITH THESE
NAMES OF ORGANIZATIONS WITH "TEA
REVELATIONS ABOUT LOOKING AT THE
PARTY" WITH OTHER SUCH NAMES?
NAMES OF ORGANIZATIONS WITH "TEA
>> WELL, THAT WAS A MISTAKE.
PARTY" WITH OTHER SUCH NAMES?
BUT THE IDEA WAS IN 2010 OR
>> WELL, THAT WAS A MISTAKE.
WHEREVER THE -- THAT WAS WHEN
BUT THE IDEA WAS IN 2010 OR
THE TEA PARTY MOVEMENT STARTED
WHEREVER THE -- THAT WAS WHEN
SPRINGING UP.
THE TEA PARTY MOVEMENT STARTED
THEY THEN ALL STARTED SENDING IN
SPRINGING UP.
THESE APPLICATIONS.
THEY THEN ALL STARTED SENDING IN
THE REALITY IS TEA PARTIES SEEM
THESE APPLICATIONS.
TO BE A LOT LIKE MANY POLITICAL
THE REALITY IS TEA PARTIES SEEM
PARTIES.
TO BE A LOT LIKE MANY POLITICAL
IF THAT'S THE CASE, THEY BELONG
PARTIES.
UNDER SECTION 527 OF THE CODE,
IF THAT'S THE CASE, THEY BELONG
NOT 501C4 BUT THE ONLY REASON
UNDER SECTION 527 OF THE CODE,
THEY'RE COME IN FOR C 4 IS
NOT 501C4 BUT THE ONLY REASON
BECAUSE YOU DON'T TO DISCLOSE
THEY'RE COME IN FOR C 4 IS
YOUR DONORS.
BECAUSE YOU DON'T TO DISCLOSE
>> Brown: WELL, CLEARLY,
YOUR DONORS.
REPUBLICANS -- YOU WERE AT THE
>> Brown: WELL, CLEARLY,
HILL TODAY.
REPUBLICANS -- YOU WERE AT THE
THEY SEE IT QUITE DIFFERENTLY
HILL TODAY.
THAT THIS WAS CLEARLY TARGETING
THEY SEE IT QUITE DIFFERENTLY
ONE SIDE AND OTHERS WERE NOT --
THAT THIS WAS CLEARLY TARGETING
OTHERS WERE ESSENTIALLY GETTING
ONE SIDE AND OTHERS WERE NOT --
A PASS.
OTHERS WERE ESSENTIALLY GETTING
>> THEY VIEW IT AS INTENTIONAL
A PASS.
TARGETING AND THEY'RE ANGRY NOT
>> THEY VIEW IT AS INTENTIONAL
ONLY ABOUT THAT BUT THEY BELIEVE
TARGETING AND THEY'RE ANGRY NOT
THE SENIOR I.R.S. OFFICIAL LIED
ONLY ABOUT THAT BUT THEY BELIEVE
TO THEM.
THE SENIOR I.R.S. OFFICIAL LIED
WE HAD A REPUBLICAN MEMBER SAY
TO THEM.
THAT LOIS LERNER, THE HEAD OF
WE HAD A REPUBLICAN MEMBER SAY
THE EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS
THAT LOIS LERNER, THE HEAD OF
DIVISION AT THE I.R.S., LIED TO
THE EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS
HIM SPECIFICALLY AND LIED TO HIS
DIVISION AT THE I.R.S., LIED TO
STAFF AND OBVIOUSLY WITH HOLDER
HIM SPECIFICALLY AND LIED TO HIS
TALKING ABOUT A CRIMINAL
STAFF AND OBVIOUSLY WITH HOLDER
INVESTIGATION INTO ALL THIS HE
TALKING ABOUT A CRIMINAL
MENTIONED THAT FALSE STATEMENT
INVESTIGATION INTO ALL THIS HE
CHARGES ARE AMONG THE CRIMINAL
MENTIONED THAT FALSE STATEMENT
STATUTES THAT THEY'RE LOOKING AT
CHARGES ARE AMONG THE CRIMINAL
IN THIS INVESTIGATION.
STATUTES THAT THEY'RE LOOKING AT
SO THEY'RE EAGER TO GET TO THE
IN THIS INVESTIGATION.
BOTTOM OF IT AND I WAS KIND OF
SO THEY'RE EAGER TO GET TO THE
SURPRISED THAT REPUBLICANS
BOTTOM OF IT AND I WAS KIND OF
SEEMED TO BE SATISFIED WITH THE
SURPRISED THAT REPUBLICANS
NOTION OF A CRIMINAL
SEEMED TO BE SATISFIED WITH THE
INVESTIGATION BY THE JUSTICE
NOTION OF A CRIMINAL
DEPARTMENT.
INVESTIGATION BY THE JUSTICE
WE DIDN'T HEAR TALK OF A SPECIAL
DEPARTMENT.
COUNSEL, NOT TODAY ANY WAY.
WE DIDN'T HEAR TALK OF A SPECIAL
PHENOMEN.NO
COUNSEL, NOT TODAY ANY WAY.
>> Brown: BUT THEY ARE LOOKING
PHENOMEN.NO
AT THE CHAIN, RIGHT?
>> Brown: BUT THEY ARE LOOKING
OF -- BECAUSE, AGAIN, WE'RE
AT THE CHAIN, RIGHT?
LOOKING AT PEOPLE IN A
OF -- BECAUSE, AGAIN, WE'RE
CINCINNATI OFFICE OR IN A
LOOKING AT PEOPLE IN A
WASHINGTON OFFICE, WHAT'S THE
CINCINNATI OFFICE OR IN A
CHAIN?
WASHINGTON OFFICE, WHAT'S THE
HOW FAR DOES IT GO?
CHAIN?
>> RIGHT.
HOW FAR DOES IT GO?
I MEAN, THE CINCINNATI THING I
>> RIGHT.
THINK IS A KEN T KENNARD BECAUSE
I MEAN, THE CINCINNATI THING I
THAT HANDLES ALL THE EXEMPT
THINK IS A KEN T KENNARD BECAUSE
ORGANIZATIONS BECAUSE IT
THAT HANDLES ALL THE EXEMPT
HAPPENED TO BE IN CINCINNATI.
ORGANIZATIONS BECAUSE IT
IT SEEMS TO DOWN PLAY IT AS A
HAPPENED TO BE IN CINCINNATI.
REGIONAL PROBLEM AND IT WAS A
IT SEEMS TO DOWN PLAY IT AS A
NATIONAL PROBLEM AND THEY DON'T
REGIONAL PROBLEM AND IT WAS A
BELIEVE CORRECTIVE ACTION WAS
NATIONAL PROBLEM AND THEY DON'T
TAKEN PROMPTLY ENOUGH HERE AND
BELIEVE CORRECTIVE ACTION WAS
WITH SOMETHING OF THIS SENSEIVE
TAKEN PROMPTLY ENOUGH HERE AND
THETY THAT MAY BE WHY
WITH SOMETHING OF THIS SENSEIVE
MR. MILLER'S RESIGNATION WAS
THETY THAT MAY BE WHY
CALLED FOR.
MR. MILLER'S RESIGNATION WAS
IT WASN'T HIS FAULT THAT WAS
CALLED FOR.
THIS WAS DONE.
IT WASN'T HIS FAULT THAT WAS
IN FACT, MOST OF IT HAPPENED ON
THIS WAS DONE.
HIS PREDECESSOR'S WATCH BUT
IN FACT, MOST OF IT HAPPENED ON
MAYBE HE DIDN'T ACT QIFLY ENOUGH
HIS PREDECESSOR'S WATCH BUT
AND WAS NOT CANDIDATE ENOUGH
MAYBE HE DIDN'T ACT QIFLY ENOUGH
WITH CONGRESS.
AND WAS NOT CANDIDATE ENOUGH
>> Brown: I HEARD IN SOME OF THE
WITH CONGRESS.
HEARINGS TODAY WHEN I WAS
>> Brown: I HEARD IN SOME OF THE
LISTENING THERE WAS THIS
HEARINGS TODAY WHEN I WAS
QUESTION OFSY S THE I.R.S.
LISTENING THERE WAS THIS
INDEPENDENT OR NOT?
QUESTION OFSY S THE I.R.S.
THAT'S STILL OUT THERE, RIGHT?
INDEPENDENT OR NOT?
A REPORT TO JACK LEW, THE
THAT'S STILL OUT THERE, RIGHT?
TREASURY SECRETARY, HE REPORTS
A REPORT TO JACK LEW, THE
TO THE PRESIDENT.
TREASURY SECRETARY, HE REPORTS
THESE THE QUESTIONS.
TO THE PRESIDENT.
>> IT'S OFFICIALLY A TREASURY
THESE THE QUESTIONS.
AGENCY SO IT'S NOT COMPLETELY
>> IT'S OFFICIALLY A TREASURY
INSPECT, YOU DO HAVE AN UNUSUAL
AGENCY SO IT'S NOT COMPLETELY
FIVE-YEAR TERM FOR THE I.R.S.
INSPECT, YOU DO HAVE AN UNUSUAL
COMMISSIONER BUT THESE THE
FIVE-YEAR TERM FOR THE I.R.S.
QUESTIONS THAT ARE SWIRLING AND
COMMISSIONER BUT THESE THE
THE REPUBLICANS WERE SUGGESTING
QUESTIONS THAT ARE SWIRLING AND
THIS IS NOT A PROBLEM THAT THE
THE REPUBLICANS WERE SUGGESTING
PRESIDENT CAN COMPLETELY DIVEST
THIS IS NOT A PROBLEM THAT THE
HIMSELF AND WASH HIS HANDS OF.
PRESIDENT CAN COMPLETELY DIVEST
IT APPEARS THE PRESIDENT AND HIS
HIMSELF AND WASH HIS HANDS OF.
ADVISORS AGREE GIVEN THE
IT APPEARS THE PRESIDENT AND HIS
PROMINENCE OF THIS ANNOUNCEMENT
ADVISORS AGREE GIVEN THE
TONIGHT GOING ON NATIONAL
PROMINENCE OF THIS ANNOUNCEMENT
TELEVISION TO ANNOUNCE THAT THAT
TONIGHT GOING ON NATIONAL
HE'S DISMISSED THE ACTING I.R.S.
TELEVISION TO ANNOUNCE THAT THAT
COMMISSIONER.
HE'S DISMISSED THE ACTING I.R.S.
>> Brown: NOT AN END, THOUGH.
COMMISSIONER.
MORE HEARINGS.
>> Brown: NOT AN END, THOUGH.
>> NO, YOU'LL HAVE THE ONGOING
MORE HEARINGS.
CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION INTO WHAT
>> NO, YOU'LL HAVE THE ONGOING
HAPPENED HERE.
CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION INTO WHAT
BUT IT'S AN EFFORT TO MAYBE MOVE
HAPPENED HERE.
THIS THIS TO THE INSIDE PAGES OF
BUT IT'S AN EFFORT TO MAYBE MOVE
THE NEWSPAPER INSTEAD OF THE
THIS THIS TO THE INSIDE PAGES OF
FRONT PAGE.
THE NEWSPAPER INSTEAD OF THE
>> Brown: JOSH GERSTEIN, PAUL
FRONT PAGE.
STRECKFUS, THANK YOU BOTH VERY
>> Brown: JOSH GERSTEIN, PAUL
MUCH.
STRECKFUS, THANK YOU BOTH VERY
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: NOW, HELPING CITIES
BETTER PREPARE FOR NATURAL
DISASTERS AND EXTREME WEATHER.
JUDY WOODRUFF HAS THE STORY
>> Woodruff: THE DAMAGE CAUSED
BY MAJOR WEATHER EVENTS IN
RECENT YEARS HAS OFTEN BEEN
ENORMOUS, COSTLY, AND LED TO
BIGGER PROBLEMS.
CITIES AND TOWNS FLOODED BY
SUPERSTORM SANDY, ELECTRICAL
POWER GRIDS TAXED BEYOND THEIR
CAPACITY DURING EXTREME HEAT
WAVES, AND THE FLOODING CAUSED
BY BOTH HURRICANE KATRINA AND
THE LEVEES THEMSELVES THAT WERE
NOT ADEQUATELY DESIGNED FOR THE
STORM.
SCIENTISTS SAY NO ONE DISASTER
LINKED WITH CLIMATE CHANGE, BUT
THEY ALSO SAY SOME MAY BE LINKED
WITH CLIMATE CHANGE AND THE RISE
IN GREENHOUSE GASES.
LAST WEEK, THE GOVERNMENT
REPORTED THAT CARBON DIOXIDE, A
HEAT-TRAPPING GAS, H REACHED
ITS HIGHEST LEVELS IN HUMAN
HISTORY.
NOW THE ROCKEFELLER FOUNDATION
IS HOPING TO SPUR CITIES TO
CREATE NEW PLANS TO BETTER ADAPT
TO THE TIMES AND TO MAKE THEM
MORE RESILIENT WHEN DISASTER
DOES STRIKE.
THE PROGRAM WILL ALLOCATE $100
MILLION TO 100 CITIES AROUND THE
WORLD OVER THE NEXT THREE YEARS.
WE LOOK MORE CLOSELY AT THAT
WITH JUDITH RODIN, THE PRESIDENT
OF THE ROCKEFELLER FOUNDATION,
AND MIAMI'S MAYOR TOMAS
REGALADO.
FOR THE RECORD, THE ROCKEFELLER
FOUNDATION HAS BEEN A NEWSHOUR
UNDERWRITER.
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
JUDY RODIN, TO YOU FIRST.
TELL OUR AUDIENCE WHAT YOU MEAN
BY "RESILIENCE"?
>> RESILIENCE IS REALLY THE
ABILITY TO WITHSTAND SHOCKS MORE
EFFECTIVELY AND TO REBOUND MORE
QUICKLY.
SO IT'S CAPACITY THAT CAN BE
LEARNED.
IT'S BUILT INTO INDIVIDUALS, TO
COMMUNITIES, TO SYSTEMS AND
INSTITUTIONS AND IN THIS ERA
WHERE WE DON'T KNOW WHERE THE
NEXT TYPE OF STORM IS GOING TO
COME FROM BUT WE KNOW PRETTY
CERTAINLY THAT IT'S GOING TO
HAPPEN, BUILDING IN THE ABILITY
TOLL WITHSTAND IS REALLY A HUGE
PREVENTATIVE EFFORT AND VERY,
VERY NEEDED.
>> Warner: WE'VE HEARD SO MUCH
ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY, ABOUT
PRESERVING THE ENVIRONMENT AND
YET JUST A FEW DAYS AGO WE HEARD
THE CARBON CARBON DIOXIDE LEVELS
ARE AT THEIR HIGHEST NUMBERS IN
HUMAN HISTORY.
DOES THIS SUGGEST WHAT YOU'RE
DOING SUGGEST THAT IS THE FIGHT
TO KEEP THE ENVIRONMENTLE FROM
GOING OFF THE DEEP SEND OVER AND
NOW IT'S ABOUT SURVIVING THE
WORST?
>> NO, NOT AT ALL.
THIS STARTS WITH THE ASSUMPTION
THAT WE HAVE TO CONTINUE
SUSTAINABILITY AND MITIGATION
STRATEGIES BUT IT ALSO
UNDERSTANDS THE REALITY AND ONCE
EVERY HUNDRED YEAR STORM
BECOMING ONCE A WEEK STORMS
SOMEWHERE THAT SO MUCH OF
CLIMATE CHANGE THAT'S ALREADY
OCCURRED IS LEADING TO THESE
HUGE SHOCKS, HUGE STORMS, WIND,
HURRICANE, TSUNAMI AND CITIES
ARE GOING TO HAVE TO ADAPT TO
THAT AT THE SAME TIME THEY'RE
BUILDING THEIR EXCELLENT AND
OVERDUE SUSTAINABILITY AND
MITIGATION STRATEGIES AS WELL.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ARE SOME
EXAMPLES, JUDY RODIN, OF WHAT
CITIES NEED TO BE THINKING ABOUT
AND DOING?
>> WELL, CITIES NEED TO BUILD
REDUNDANCY.
THEY NEED TO BUILD IN THE
CAPACITY TO WALL OFF A PIECE OF
A SYSTEM IF IT FAILS SO THAT THE
ENTIRE SYSTEM ISN'T TAKEN DOWN.
LET'S USE A SMART GRID.
AS I WORKED ON THE COMMISSION,
CHAIR THE COMMISSIONER FOR
GOVERNOR CUOMO IN THE RECOVERY
OF NEW YORK STATE FROM
SUPERSTORM SANDY, WE LOOKED AT
PUTTING IN-- AND THE GOVERNOR IS
RECOMMENDING-- THIS SMART GRID
TECHNOLOGY.
AND IT REALLY DOES YOUTH BOTH
SUSTAINABILITY AND RESILIENCE
PRINCIPLES BECAUSE IT TAKES
ENERGY FROM ANY SOURCE,
TRADITIONAL SOURCES AS WELL AS
ALTERNATIVE ENERGY SOURCES, AND
IT USES WHICH EVER ONE IS BOTH
MOST AVAILABLE AND THE LOWEST
COST AT ANY SINGLE TIME THROUGH
A VERY COMPLICATED MONITORING
SYSTEM.
THEN IT'S ALSO ABLE TO DRAW FROM
GEOGRAPHICALLY ANY PART OF THE
SYSTEM.
SO IF ONE PART GOES DOWN IT CAN
DRAW FROM ANOTHER PART.
SO THERE'S A DELINKING IN THE
NETWORKING AS WELL AS REDUNDANCY
IN THE SYSTEM THAT REALLY DOES
CREATE THE RESILIENCE THAT THE
ELECTRIC -- THAT THE ELECTRICITY
SYSTEM IS GOING TO NEED GOING
FORWARD IN EVERY CITY.
>> Woodruff: MAYOR REGALADO, AS
MAYOR OF THE HUGE CITY OF MIAMI,
WHAT DOES AN INITIATIVE LIKE
THIS MEAN TO YOU?
WHAT WOULD IT MEAN FOR MIAMI TO
BE THE RECIPIENT OF ONE OF THOSE
GRANTS?
WHAT KINDS OF THINGS WOULD YOU
BE ABLE TO DO THAT YOU CAN'T DO
NOW?
>> WELL, I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT
FOR MIAMI AND I THINK IT'S A
GREAT PROGRAM.
MIAMI CHECKS ALL THE BOXES
BECAUSE WE ARE ON THE COAST.
CONSTRUCTION HAS BEEN WILD.
AND WE HAVE, LIKE,
70,000 PEOPLE LIVING RIGHT ON
THE EDGE OF THE WATER SO THE
STORM SURGE, THE STORMS WILL
AFFECT -- YOU KNOW, WE LIVE ON
THE EDGE FROM JUNE TO NOVEMBER.
THAT'S HURRICANE SEASON AND WE
HAVEN'T HAD A HURRICANE SINCE
KATRINA AND WILMA BUT WHAT DO WE
DO WITH THAT MONEY?
WELL, NUMBER ONE WE COULD HAVE
ONE PERSON, ONE OFFICE DEDICATED
YEAR ROUND TO LOOK AT THE WAY TO
OUTREACH AND GET THROUGH THE
PEOPLE AND ESPECIALLY TO INVEST
IN TECHNOLOGY.
SO WHEN WE HAVE A STORM, THE
FIRST THING THAT HAPPENS HERE IN
MIAMI IS ELECTRICITY GOES OFF
AND THEN WE CAN USE THAT
TECHNOLOGY TO REACH OUT TO FIRST
RESPONDERS AND ALL THAT.
THE FIRE DEPARTMENT IS THE
AGENCY IN CHARGE OF RESPONDING
TO EMERGENCY, AS YOU KNOW, AND
THEY ARE IN CHARGE OF OUR
EMERGENCY SYSTEM.
BUT THEY HAVE TO DO OTHER THINGS
THROUGHOUT THE YEAR.
SO IF WE COULD HAVE ONE OFFICE,
ONE PERSON AND SOME MONEY FOR
TECHNOLOGY, IT WILL BE FANTASTIC
BECAUSE WE WILL BE ALWAYS
PREPARED.
>> Woodruff: AND MR. MAYOR, JUST
STAYING WITH YOU, WHAT ABOUT THE
IDEA -- PEOPLE HAVE LOOKED AT
SOMETHING LIKE THIS AND THEY SAY
"WELL, THAT'S TYPICALLY THE
FUNCTION OF GOVERNMENT, NOT OF
THE PRIVATE SECTOR.
NOT OF A NONPROFIT, A FOUNDATION
TO BE DOING THIS."
HOW DO YOU FEEL ABOUT ACCEPTING
MONEY LIKE THERE FROM A
FOUNDATION IF YOU WERE TO
RECEIVE IT?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW THERE IS A NEW
NORMAL NOW IN THE UNITED STATES
AFTER THE ECONOMY WENT BAD,
CITIES HAVE TO CUT BUDGETS AND
IT'S UNFORTUNATE LIVE THAT
THAT'S THE WAY IT IS.
SO THE NEW THING IS TO PARTNER
WITH THE PRIVATE SECTOR AND I
THINK THAT IT'S IMPORTANT THAT
FOUNDATIONS LIKE THE ROCKEFELLER
FOUNDATIONS WILL UNDERSTAND THAT
GOVERNMENTS DO NEED HELP FOR A
SPECIFIC REASON.
YOU KNOW, WE ARE NOT -- WE DON'T
WANT A MILLION DOLLARS JUST TO
ADD IT TO THE GENERAL FUND BUT
FOR A SPECIFIC SOMETHING.
GOING OUTSIDE OUR GENERAL BUDGET
IT WILL BE FANTASTIC AND I THINK
THAT THE PEOPLE WILL APPRECIATE
IT.
BECAUSE IT IS THERE AS A BUFFER
TO WARN THEM, TO INFORM THEM AND
TO TELL THEM THAT WE ARE ALWAYS
READY DURING THE YEAR.
>> JUDY, THIS IS NOT JUST TO
REPLACE GOVERNMENT.
CERTAINLY THIS IS NOT ENOUGH
MONEY TO EVEN IMAGINE DOING
THAT.
THE ROLE OF PHILANTHROPY IS TO
BE LEVERAGE AND RISK CAPITAL AND
HERE THERE'S GOING TO BE
BILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT ARE
NECESSARY IN CITIES LIKE THE
MAYORS AROUND THE WORLD.
AND OUR GOAL IS TO HELP AND GIVE
THE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND THE
SUPPORT SO THAT THE CITIES CAN
REALLY ACCESS PRIVATE SECTOR
CAPITAL THAT RIGHT NOW IS
SITTING ON THE SIDELINES WAITING
TO INVEST IN THIS KIND OF
INFRASTRUCTURE IN PUBLIC/PRIVATE
PARTNERSHIPS.
IF T MAYOR HAS JUST DONE A
BRILLIANT ONE IN THE PORT OF
MIAMI AND SO HE KNOWS WHAT THE
EXAMPLE IS, BUT WE'VE BEEN
STRUCK.
EVEN KNOWLEDGEABLE MAYORS AROUND
THE UNITED STATES DON'T YET KNOW
THE KINDS OF TECHNICAL AND
POLICY FRAMEWORK THAT MIGHT BE
BEST FOR THEIR CITIES TO CROWD
IN THE PRIVATE CAPITAL AND MAKE
THEM PARTNERS IN BUILDING
RESILIENT INFRASTRUCTURE.
>> Woodruff: WELL, IT'S A
FASCINATING VENTURE GETTING
UNDER WAY RIGHT NOW.
JUDITH RODIN, THE PRESIDENT OF
THE ROCKEFELLER FOUNDATION AND
MAYOR TOMAS REGALADO, THE CITY
OF MIAMI.
WE THANK YOU BOTH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Brown: ONLINE WE HAVE A
ROUNDUP OF HOW ESCALATING
NATURAL DISASTERS HAVE AFFECTED
COMMUNITIES ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT,
DEALING WITH THE RISKS OF BREAST
CANCER.
ANGELINA JOLIE'S SURPRISE
DISCLOSURE THAT SHE HAD A
PREVENTIVE DOUBLE MASTECTOMY
THREE MONTHS AGO, HAS OPENED THE
DOOR TO A WIDER CONVERSATION.
THE 37-YEAR OLD ACTRESS AND
DIRECTOR ANNOUNCED HER DECISION
IN YESTERDAY'S "NEW YORK TIMES,"
WRITING:
JOLIE CARRIES THE GENETIC
MUTATION B.R.C.A.-1, WHICH
PLACES HER AT A MUCH HIGHER RISK
FOR BREAST AND OVARIAN CANCER.
BUT HOW HAVE, AND HOW SHOULD
OTHER WOMEN DEAL WITH THE RISKS
INHERENT IN THIS SURGICAL
OPTION?
FOR SOME EXPERT INSIGHT, WE TURN
TO BETH PESHKIN, A GENETIC
COUNSELOR AND PROFESSOR OF
ONCOLOGY AT GEORGETOWN
UNIVERSITY AND DR. KENNETH
OFFIT, CHIEF OF CLINICAL
GENETICS SERVICES AT MEMORIAL
SLOAN-KETTERING CENTER IN NEW
YORK.
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
SO DR. OFFIT, GIVE US A LITTLE
MORE ELABORATION ON WHO EXACTLY
IS AT RISK FROM THIS BRCA GENE
THAT WE KEEP TALKING ABOUT?
>> WELL, WE SHOULD FIRST MAKE IT
CLEAR THAT THIS IS A MINORITY OF
WOMEN WITH BREAST CANCER.
WE THINK ONLY ABOUT 5% OF WOMEN
WITH BREAST CANCER WILL HAVE
THIS HEREDITARY HIGH-RISK FORM.
AND THOSE ARE THE INDIVIDUALS
WHO WOULD BENEFIT MOST FROM
GENETIC TESTING.
INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE VERY EARLY
AGE WITH BREAST CANCER-- 30s AND
40s-- WE THINK ALL WOMEN WITH
OVARIAN CANCER SHOULD HAVE
GENETIC TESTING IF YOU HAVE A
FAMILY HISTORY OF BREAST AND
OVARIAN CANCER IN YOUR FAMILY,
MALE PROSTATE CANCER CAN ALSO
RUN IN THESE FAMILIES AND
INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE OF EASTERN
EUROPEAN ASHKENAZI JEWISH
HERITAGE ARE ALSO AT INCREASED
RISK FOR TYPE OF HEREDITARY
CANCER, BUT IT'S STILL A SMALL
PART OF THE OVERALL AMOUNT OF
EASTBR CANCER.
>> Ifill: BETH PERSON KIN, WHEN
WE TALK ABOUT GENETIC TESTING,
WHAT DOES THAT INVOLVE?
>> THE FIRST STEP IS GENETIC
COUNSELING.
SO THE FIRST STEP IS TO GET A
COMPREHENSIVE RISK ASSESSMENT,
LEARN ABOUT THEIR PERSONAL AND
FAMILY HISTORY AND DETERMINE
EXACT WHAT EXACTLY RISK IS THAT
THEY MAY CARRY AN INHERITED FORM
OF THE RISK.
>> Ifill: ARE THERE OPTIONS
SHORT OF SURGERY?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
AND I THINK IT'S VERY IMPORTANT
FOR PEOPLE TO UNDERSTAND THAT
THERE ARE MANY DIFFERENT OPTIONS
FOR WOMEN TO CONSIDER WHO FIND
THAT THEY'RE AT INCREASED RISK
FOR BREAST CANCER INCLUDING
SCREENS SUCH AS EARLY AND
FREQUENT MAMMOGRAPHY, BREAST
M.R.I., OTHER OPTIONS FOR RISK
REDUCTION INCLUDING TAMOXIFEN AS
WELL AS THE SURGICAL OPTION THAT
WE'VE HEARD MUCH ABOUT.
>> Ifill: BUT DR. OFFIT, WE'RE
NOT NECESSARILY TALKING ABOUT
THE SAME OPTIONS FOR OVARIAN
CANCER, ARE WE?
>> THAT'S A VERY IMPORTANT POINT
AND IT'S PROBABLY THE MOST
IMPORTANT POINT, ONE THAT WE
CERTAINLY LEARNED WHEN WE
PUBLISHED OUR PAPER AT
SLOAN-KETTERING ABOUT THIS.
THE SURGERY DISCUSSION HERE IS
FOCUSING ON BREAST CANCER AND AS
BETH SAID THAT'S AN OPTION TO
DISCUSS.
BUT THE OVARIAN CANCER SURGERY
IS NOT AN OPTION AND WE FEEL
THAT THIS HAS TO BE DONE IN
WOMEN AFTER CHILD BEARING
BECAUSE WE HAVE NO MEANS OF
FINDING OVARIAN CANCER AT AN
EARLY STAGE.
WHEN WE WROTE THAT ARTICLE, ONE
OF THE REALLY DRAMATIC FINDINGS
THAT WE'LL ALWAYS REMEMBER WAS
THAT 3% TO 4% OF THESE WOMEN, 1A
PREVENTATIVE OVARIAN CANCER
SURGERY WHO HAD THE BRCA GENE
AND I'D NEVER SEEN THAT UNTIL WE
STARTED DOING GENETIC TESTING.
SO WHILE THE FOCUS IS ON EASTBR
CANCER SURGERY YOUR QUESTION IS
RIGHT, WE WANT TO THINK ABOUT
THE OVARIAN SURGERY FIRST.
>> Ifill: I ALSO WANT TO ASK YOU
BRIEFLY, WHO'S PAYING FOR.
IS THERE SOMETHING THAT COVER
THIS IS KIND OF RADICAL ALMOST
ELECTIVE SURGELY.
IS IT COVERED BY INSURANCE?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
AND, YOU KNOW, ONE OF THE FEARS
THAT WE HAVE -- BETH WILL
REMEMBER, YOU KNOW, SHE WAS WITH
US IN NEW YORK WHEN WE WERE
FIRST STARTING ALL OF THIS AND
WE WERE VERY NERVOUS THE
INSURANCE COMPANIES WOULD
ACTUALLY DISCRIMINATE AGAINST
WOMEN AND NOT ONLY NOT INSURE
THEM BUT CHARGE THEM MORE.
IN FACT, THE INSURANCE COMPANIES
HAVE ACTED THE OTHER WAY AND
HAVE PAID FOR THE TESTING AND,
IN FACT, THEY'LL EVEN PAY FOR
THESE TYPES OF SURGERIES AND THE
M.R.I.s BETH ALLUDED TO.
>> Ifill: ANGELINA JOLIE IS NOT
THE FIRST PERSON TO HAVE GONE
THROUGH THIS BUT SHE IS DRAWING
A LOT OF ATTENTION TO THIS.
SO A WOMAN CALLS YOU -- I ASSUME
YOU GET A LOT OF PHONE CALLS ON
A DAY LIKE TODAY SAYING "SHOULD
BY TESTED?
AM I SUSCEPTIBLE TO THIS?"
WHAT IS THE ANERSW TO THOSE
QUESTIONS, PEOPLE SITTING HOME
THINKING "WHAT ABOUT ME?"
>> THE ANSWER IS TO REALLY
CONSIDER IT AS A PROCESS OF
DECISION MAKING AND TO MAKE AN
INFORMED CHOICE.
SO PEOPLE WHO DO HAVE AN
ELEVATED RISK OF CARING A
MUTATION IN ONE OF THESE GENES
CERTAINLY SHOULD CONSIDER
GETTING THE TESTING AND THEN
CONSIDER WHAT ALL OF THE OPTIONS
ARE FOR RISK REDUCTIONS AND
>> I THINK IT'S OPENED UP A
NATIONAL DISCUSSION THAT'S
IMPORTANT THIEF FEMININITY AND
SEXUALITY ARE NOT DEFINED ONLY
BY ONE'S BREASTS AND THAT IT'S A
COMPLETE PICTURE OF HOW SHI
FEELS ABOUT HER CONFIDENCE AND
ABILITY TO MAKE DECISIONS THAT
ARE RIGHT FOR HER.
BUT I ALSO THINK THE OTHER
MESSAGE IS IT'S NOT JUST THE
OPTION THAT SHE CHOSE HER
SURGERY BUT IT'S THE POWER OF
GENETIC TESTING AND PERSONALIZED
MEDICINE AND IT'S IMPORTANT TO
GET TESTING WHEN IT'S INDICATED.
>> Ifill: DR. OFFIT?
>> IT'S ALWAYS ADMIRABLE WHEN
SOMEONE IN THE PUBLIC EYE SHARES
HEALTH INFORMATION TO CREATE
THIS TYPE OF TEACHABLE MOMENT
WE'RE HAVING NOW.
I TAUGHT FOR YEARS CORNELL
MEDICAL STUDENTS THE BETTY FORD
STORY.
WE REMEMBER AFTER HER DIAGNOSIS
THE NUMBER OF MA'AM GRAPHIC
BREAST CANCER DIAGNOSES BUMPED
AND LIVES WERE SAVED AND I THIS
IS THAT SAME OPPORTUNITY
WATCHING THIS SHOW TONIGHT, SOME
LIVES WILL BE SAVED BECAUSE
WOMEN AWARE OF THEIR OWN FAMILY
HISTORIES WILL BE INSPIRED TO
COME IN TO TALK TO BETH, TO TALK
TO US AND TO TAKE THESE ACTIONS
TO DETECT CANCERS AT A CURABLE
STAGE OR TO PREVENT THEM
ENTIRELY.
>> DR. KENNETH OFFIT OF
SLOAN-KETTERING IN NEW YORK AND
DR. BETH PESHKIN OF GEORGETOWN,
THANK YOU BOTH SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Brown: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
PRESIDENT OBAMA ANNOUNCED THIS
EVENING THAT THE ACTING I.R.S.
COMMISSIONER HAS BEEN FORCED
OUT.
THAT COMES AMID A STORM OF
CRITICISM OVER THE TARGETING OF
CONSERVATIVE GROUPS.
AND THE WHITE HOUSE RELEASED 100
PAGES OF DOCUMENTS ABOUT LAST
YEAR'S FATAL ATTACK ON U.S.
DIPLOMATS IN BENGHAZI, LIBYA.
>> Ifill: ONLINE, A WAKE-UP CALL
FOR LAW SCHOOL GRADS.
KWAME HOLMAN HAS MORE.
>> Holman: THERE'S A SURPLUS OF
LAWYERS AND LAW GRADS OFTEN
CARRY DAUNTING STUDENT LOAN
DEBT.
WHAT'S TO BLAME?
WE TALKED TO THE AUTHOR OF "THE
LAWYER BUBBLE" FOR ANSWERS.
AND ON THE RUNDOWN, FIND OUT HOW
FAST MEMBERS OF CONGRESS CAN RUN
FOR CHARITY.
WATCH VIDEO OF TODAY'S A.C.L.I.
CAPITAL CHALLENGE RACE, CAPTURED
BY OUR "NEWSHOUR" HATCAM.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
GWEN?
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
ON THURSDAY, WE'LL EXAMINE HOW
EVANGELICAL CHRISTIANS ARE
SHAPING THE IMMIGRATION DEBATE.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Brown: AND I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TORROOMW EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
GOOD NIGHT.